.TH TEXMAKE 1
.SH NAME
texmake \- Prepare a texture for use with Pixie. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtexmake\fR [ options... ] inname.tif [ iname2.tif ... ] outname.tex
.P
\fBtexmake\fR -texture3d [ brickmap options... ] inname.ptc outname.bm
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I  Texmake
Prepares textures for efficient use in a render with 
.I rndr
.P
The main documentation is maintained in html form
and should be included with your distribution in the html or doc directories.
.P
The command allows for preparation of envionment maps with latitude-logitude
mapping, cube maps and also shadow maps.
.I Texmake
will output a prepared texture in the same format as the input.  Supported modes
are: 8bit per channel, 16bit per channel and float values per channel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-mode <MODE>
Is one of:
.RS
.TP
.B <none>
The default.  Prepare a standard texture.
.TP
.B \-shadow
Prepare a shadow map
.TP
.B \-envlatl
Prepare a latitude-longitude environment map
.TP
.B \-envcube
Prepare a cube environment map.  There are expected to be 6 input textures
specified before the output filename representing the faces. These are specified
in the following order: +x -x +y -y +z -z.
.RE
.TP
.B \-tilesize
Set the tile size for the output, defaults to 32.
.TP
.B \-smode <MODE>
Set the s mode.  This may be one of 
.RS
.TP
.B periodic
.TP
.B nonperiodic
.TP
.B nowrap
.TP
.B clamp
.TP
.B black
.RE
.TP
.B \-tmode <MODE>
Set the t mode, see -smode.
.TP
.B \-filter <FILTER>
Set the filtering mode to <FILTER>.  Valid modes are:
.RS
.TP
.B box
.TP
.B triangle
.TP
.B gaussian
.TP
.B catmull-rom
.TP
.B sinc
.RE
.TP
.B \-filterwidth <WIDTH>
Set the swidth and twidth of the filter used to prepare the mip levels.
.TP
.B \-sfilterwidth <WIDTH>
Set the swidth of the filter.
.TP
.B \-tfilterwidth <WIDTH>
Set the twidth of the filter.
.TP
.B \-resize <MODE>
Set the resize mode.
The up down and round modes resize the image to be power of 2, but retain the image aspect ratio,
filling the rest with black.  Adjustments are made in the renderer so this is not apparent.  The
up- down- and  rount- modes resize the image to be power of 2 in all dimentions (stretching it).
The none mode does not rescale the image (used to be the default mode).

Resize mode may be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B up
.TP
.B down
.TP
.B round
.TP
.B none
.TP
.B up-
.TP
.B down-
.TP
.B round-
.TP
.RE
.TP
.B \-fov <FOV>
Set the field of view.
.TP
.B \-input <PATH>
Set the input file path to PATH.
.TP
.B \-output <PATH>
Set the output file path the PATH.
.SH BRICKMAP OPTIONS
.TP
.B -maxerror 0.002
Set the maximum error factor for brickmap compression - 0 to disable.
.TP
.B -radiusscale 1
Multiply point radii by radiussscale when making the brickmap, use values >1 if
brickmaps are unnecessarily large due to overly small point radii.
.TP
.B -maxdepth 10
Set the maximum depth of the brickmap
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rndr(1), sdrc(1), show(1), sdrinfo(1)
.SH BUGS
See the sourceforge forums / tracker at http://pixie.sourceforge.net
